>> Hello, Michael. Hello, everybody.
>> Hello.
>> Good to see you again,
and I'm excited to talk Python.
>> Indeed, let's do it.
We have some awesome things.
>> Let's kick it off.
>> Many awesome things. Let's kick it off.
All right. So do you want to fix it?
You got a problem? We're going to fix it.
Fix it too. The first time we fix it,
it didn't get fixed right.
So I'm going to talk about this thing called fix it.
Did you want to do the intro several quick before I jump into this?
>> We may want to do an intro.
>> Yeah, go ahead. Do it. I see you're like,
what? You jumped ahead.
>> Hello and welcome to Python Bytes where we
deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 363,
recorded December 5th, and I'm Brian Okken.
>> I'm Michael Kennedy.
>> This week, we are sponsored by ourselves.
So we will plug our own stuff a little bit later.
If you want to follow the show,
follow it at pythonbytes@fostadon.org.
Also, Michael and I are both on Fostadon as well, which is Mastodon.
If you're anywhere other than Fostadon,
also, that's fine.
You can still follow us.
But if you would like an invite,
hit one of us up and we will send you an invite.
>> Absolutely.
>> Now, let's talk about fix it.
>> I just want to add a little meta sidebar there.
Mastodon has made it easier to
start following people from other instances, by the way.
I don't know if you remember how it used to be.
You'd go and somebody would be like at
mast.to and it'd be like sign in.
You couldn't follow them, you have to sign in.
You're like, but I don't have an account here.
What is this weirdness?
Now, if you say follow,
it'll pull a dropdown and say,
give me a few letters out of your instance,
and then we'll direct you
over there where you're signed in to click "Follow".
So it's a little bit easier to follow.
>> Oh.
>> Mastodon. It's still clunky.
I don't know why it's so hard.
>> What I usually do is I've not tried that.
I usually pop somebody's whole,
like say at mkennedy@fosstodon.org or something,
and pop it in the search bar.
>> That's what I did previously as well.
>> Yeah. It usually finds the person.
>> Yeah. You can even put just the whole URL of
their profile without reordering it to their user.
>> Yeah. But if I'm trying to find the URL,
that's sometimes a, yeah.
>> Indeed. Well, Mastodon is getting a little smoother,
and actually, Mastodon conversations
are going to be featured at least in my stuff here.
So more heavily. Yeah, let's talk about Fixit.
Fixit is this, what's the best way to put this?
Probably a Flake 8.
They compare it to Flake 8.
This comes from Meta,
aka Facebook, and it's a linter for their monorepo.
When you hear monorepo,
that is not a monolith.
Ironically, a lot of times,
the more broken up your code is,
the more it fits a monorepo.
But anyway, they have literally a single repo.
Is it Git? I'm not sure,
but something like a single Git repo for all of Facebook,
which is just insane.
They want to lint that,
and they want to have things like black applied to it.
Black actually came from Lukas Langa,
who was at Meta at the time, so funny.
But they don't use black.
I don't know why they don't use black.
They have some reasons.
Seems like black saw some of them and could be
probably adapted while Lukas was there.
But anyway, they don't.
They had this thing called Fixit that goes through,
and is more like black even though they compare it to Flake 8,
and that it not just finds problems,
but fixes them and normalizes things
like where do your commas go in a list?
Or you have a plus to continue a line.
Is that at the end of the one line
or the beginning of the other line?
Those kinds of things we're all familiar with.
They built one called Fixit,
and now they released another one called Fixit 2,
that's supposed to be better,
and they open-sourced it so people
can check this out if they're interested.
I'll tell you a quick few things about it.
Let's bump over to the Mastodon,
not the Mastodon, Omnivore, other thing.
Because I have notes on this big long thing.
It turns out that Python is super popular over at Meta,
which is really cool.
They have production engineers and software engineers.
Production engineers are like software devs who do production.
Their main role is to do production.
They also have a whole Python language foundation team,
which is pretty interesting.
The job of this team is basically to
build tools for the rest of the team,
and that's where this Fixit thing comes.
One question is, why not just use,
say, black or Flake 8 or whatever?
>> Or a format.
>> Well, now we're getting there.
It says, of course,
there's alternatives to Flake 8,
but for example, Flake 8 doesn't fix things,
it just tells you that there are errors.
It has limited support.
This is interesting for hierarchical configurations
for different projects within a monorepo.
Even though it's a monorepo,
maybe the API gets formatted this way,
but the DevOpti code
gets a different set of configurations,
because it's a different team, but you still want to
just hit the repo with it.
>> Interesting.
>> Yeah, that's an interesting.
This is worth bringing up, I thought,
because there are some interesting ideas and
some interesting challenges.
Slow performance on large code bases.
Then another thing that they do a lot is they plug in
custom rules, linting rules, and correction rules,
at a hierarchical level,
which is interesting.
Now, Brian, I don't know if everyone sees it,
but I have a list of these four things,
these four reasons of why not just X.
Three of them are green,
because rough space format hits all of those.
Rough format didn't exist,
and I honestly wonder if Ruff format existed.
Is this a thing that gets created?
I'm not sure. It's an open question.
>> I didn't know that rough could do hierarchical configuration.
>> Well, what rough can do is you can have
a rough.toml that configures it at different levels.
Given the number of engineers and the fact there's a single repo,
how hard would it be to automate,
search this repo for all the rough.tomls,
run Ruff format.in that working directory?
>> Yeah.
>> Done. I don't think it inherently does,
but in 30 minutes it does.
>> Yeah.
>> One person's time. I wouldn't suspect as a company,
we couldn't possibly have somebody write that automation.
That's way too much for us.
I think that obviously,
I don't believe that's a dash-dash hierarchical option,
but I think that could easily be added.
That's pretty cool.
Here's the irony, is even with the one we built,
it didn't contain the local renting rules or the hierarchical configuration.
Those are the core requirements.
It's like, "Okay, well,
we redesigned it to this new one."
What's interesting is it works using the lib CST module,
which is a concrete syntax tree.
You often hear of AST or abstract syntax tree,
which is like the intent of the code is to loop over this iterable,
but it is not. The variable is named this,
and there's two spaces here, and there's a comment.
It tries to throw away,
just get to the essence, but the CST is
the code just in hierarchy form,
and which means if you want to fix it,
that's way more applicable for these kinds of tools here.
Anyway, people can check it out.
It's on PyPI.
I think it's an interesting thing to contrast with Ruff.
Yeah. Anyway, it's out there for people.
It's obviously tested on some pretty seriously large code bases,
and it could be interesting,
but I'm still going to Ruff space format dot for my money.
>> Yeah. Yeah, interesting comment from Grant in the chat.
Another YAML file for each sub-project
as opposed to supporting PyProject.
Yuck.
>> Totally fair. In this case,
I think it might be, you got to remember,
this isn't just Python.
This is like every bit of code at Facebook.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Right. It's probably React,
PHP, optimized PHP,
Go, who knows how much stuff is in there.
>> Gobs of config files in each project.
>> Yeah. You wouldn't want all the configs
for all the languages all mixed together.
So anyway, but still interesting stuff.
>> Anyway. All right.
How would you like to talk about user interfaces?
>> We have been known to go on a gooey kick before.
It's been a while. Let's do it.
I'm here for it.
>> Yeah. All right. So Samuel Colvin.
>> As long as you make it fast, Brian.
>> That was funny. The person that brought us
Pydantic has worked very closely with FastAPI as well.
So FastAPI and Pydantic work great together.
Now there's FastUI.
Well, FastUI is working with FastAPI,
but it also works with other stuff too.
So Samuel Colvin has just recently brought us FastUI,
which looks like an active development.
It's been modified five hours ago.
It's already got, but I only heard about it last week.
It's now at 1.8 thousand stars.
>> Yeah, that's pretty awesome.
>> Anyway. So what's this?
It is supposedly still a work in progress,
so not production ready,
but it's a way to build web applications and
web UIs defined by declarative Python code.
So there's a few points around this.
There's a bunch of parts of it.
It's a PyPI package, FastUI.
But so it brings in some models and some UI elements and components.
It's also an npm package,
so it brings in a little React TypeScript stuff.
What does it really mean though?
It means that you can look at,
there's a couple of examples he shows.
You declare it like this.
You're declaring a FastAPI endpoint,
like user table or something like that, as an endpoint.
It's going to return this thing that doesn't look like HTML,
and it doesn't quite look like Python either, but it is.
It's like there's a CPage object which wraps the page.
There's components inside,
which is a list of things like headings and a table.
I don't really know what this looks like, but it's not bad.
So I'm excited to play with it.
But in a few lines of code,
he shows a fairly workable,
clean looking user interface.
Then along with it, for the release,
he released a full demo which you can walk through
a UI demo that is really zippy and works pretty good.
Like the tables one is fun because it shows
a whole bunch of names of cities and populations,
and you can quickly filter by country and it's super fast.
So I think you get a lot for not much work if the workflow looks okay.
So you've done more UIs than I have.
What do you think of this?
>> It's interesting.
>> Okay.
>> So when I think of building web apps for myself,
I don't shy away from saying,
"Oh, I have to write HTML or
there has to be a template model or something like that."
That's okay for me.
>> Yeah.
>> But I've been doing it for 15 years at least.
I would say I probably started doing web stuff in 2000.
So that's a little bit more than that.
Anyway, that's a long time.
So I'm super comfortable with it,
but I know there's a lot of use cases
where I just want something quick and easy.
I want a simple deployment or I'm not
a web developer and I just want to get this up and going.
I like it. A lot of the low-code,
zero HTML styles that I've seen like,
"Oh, here you can do it in Python,"
have a top to bottom linear way of creating the code,
and I super dislike that.
First, I'm going to create a page object,
then I'm going to say page.components.add,
then I'm going to go page.components.add,
and then I'll get a table and I'll say table.rows.add.
It makes it really hard to see the visual look.
So if you go check out the fast UI GitHub read me,
you'll see that the structure and the indentation of
the code matches the DOM, and that's quite nice.
>> Yeah.
>> So I really like that aspect of it.
It reminds me a lot of Flutter,
where you write code in the exact same way you've got,
I don't know if you call it a DOM,
but whatever the widget graph is called in Flutter,
you do the same type of thing.
Like you'd have a body and then the body has a child,
and then the child can be some complex thing and it's
all nested in a very similar way.
So I think it's super interesting.
I think it will empower a lot of people.
I like the structure of the code matches the thing you're building.
That makes it way more appealing to me
because that's part of what's nice about HTML.
You go in there and you're in the table and you're
indented in the table visually. You know what I mean?
>> Yeah. There's a lot of fun stuff here too.
So even like forms and stuff that you can
do with even server-side validation.
So that it's not just a component library,
but also some React and some other things going with it is pretty cool.
Kim brings up something that I thought of directly for myself.
He says, "It's got a lot of appeal for
enterprise-grade web apps where
boring simple table layout is more than enough."
I was thinking of it like that dataset thing.
Basically, I've got a database that I want to front end for,
but it's not necessarily SQL or something or dataset just freaks me out maybe.
But something like this is I think pretty nice and I think a lot of
enterprise projects will be using this to play with.
So actually thinking about it for my own internal project myself.
>> Sure. It looks quite neat and being based on FastAPI.
>> Yeah.
>> Boy, would it be cool if there was a run it locally as an electron app like thing.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> With the electron app shipped with Python and just ran a hidden.
>> Building user interface.
>> So it becomes a make it a thing,
exe or a.app I can share with my users.
>> Yeah.
>> But yeah, I agree with Kim that forms over data, this nails it.
Like you said, a lot of web developers,
it doesn't take that much web training to write some HTML.
To do it well, it takes a little bit.
But to do it good enough for a lot of projects, it's not bad.
A normal HTML, CSS,
and the normal tool chain is still pretty good or build a Django app or something.
But there's a lot of people that don't even want to get into it at all.
So I think this is a good fit for that.
>> Chris may ask about,
wonder what the escape hatch story is.
It's always a good question when you're in
a framework that defines so much for you.
Like, well, what if I went a little bit more?
Then what? So yeah.
Brian, is it a good time to remind people that
maybe they should check out a course or two?
>> Yeah, sure. Let's.
I'll remind people that this episode is brought to you by both of us,
Michael and Brian.
The thing that I've been working on a lot lately is courses.pythontest.com.
That is the complete pytest course.
It's almost done. It'll be done this month.
I've got 13 out of 16 chapters done so far and it will grow then.
After I've gone through the entire Python testing with pytest book,
there's extras there.
As I've noted before,
there's a lot of stuff at the end that has changed a lot like talks and CI,
and things since the book came out.
So it's pretty exciting. How about you?
>> Yeah, very awesome. I just want to highlight maybe some of our new courses.
We have an early access Visual Studio Code for Python Developers course,
which is partway done but available in early access mode.
If you want to check that out, we have a Data Science Jumpstart with
10 projects from Matt Harrison and HTMX plus Django course by Christopher Trudeau.
All of those are excellent and we've got plenty more coming as well.
So people should check those out.
>> Sweet.
>> All right. Let's go to Mastodon.
>> All right.
>> I'm going to go ahead and show you a couple of the new courses.
I'm going to show you a couple of the new courses.